---
---
# HW 10 - New Spring Boot App for Project 3
This week we're moving Project 3's Game Review App to Spring Boot.  You'll begin from a new repository for this week's work.  Classes similar to your Java "Beans" you created last week will be there waiting for you.

You will get HW points for having this work completed on time.  Incomplete work for this assignment will count against your HW grade but not necessarily your final project grade.

## GitHub Info
Repository:  [https://github.com/htc-ccis2595/game-review-app](https://github.com/htc-ccis2595/game-review-app)

You need to fork this repository and submit a pull request to turn in the assignment.  Please post a screenshot of the pull request to the D2L dropbox.  The dropbox is mainly used to communicate due dates, not for storing the completed work.  You do not need to upload the project to D2L, only to GitHub.

## Verify Application Setup & TomCat Startup
After forking and cloning the repository, *OPEN* the root repository folder in IntelliJ (Do not create a new application.) and be sure to select the top level folder - the one that contains the pom.xml file.

Expand the src directory, its child main directory and its child java directory.  The java directory should be marked as a blue source directory.  If you expand the package directories, you'll see the classes are broken up into several different packages:

- config
- entities
- repositories
- services

In the main edu.htc.gamedata package, you'll notice the Application class.  Open this class, and right-click to run it.  You should see that as it starts, it logs a lot of stuff to the console.  If things go successfully you should see a message at the end that says "Started Application".  

If things are not successful, you may get compile errors or a stack trace in the console.  If you have problems, you should contact the instructor for assistance.

## Application Overview
We'll do a quick run down on the application code here.  For more details, you can check out the Spring documentation and example applications.  I'll just give you enough info here to get by with for basic knowledge and working through this project.

### POM File
In the root repository/project folder, you should see a file called pom.xml.  This is a Maven configuration file.  It tells Maven what outside libraries your code depends on and how to build your application.  

At the top, you'll see a `<groupId>` tag.  This is usually your core package name or a reverse domain name. This is followed by an `<artifactId>` which is what you are building - the identifier for your application, or at least this part of it. The `<version>` tag is the version of the project you are currently building.  You should change this each time you release a new version that you share with others.  (That means it could be a version for group development, or testing, not necessarily public release.)

Below these tags are your dependencies.  We are building off a `<parent>` Spring Boot Framework application, and information on that is found in the `<parent>` tag.  

Next you'll see information on the libraries we will use in our application.  These are found in the `<dependencies>` tag.  Each library has its own `<dependency>` tag.  You can look up information on how to code these for various libraries on the web.  Just search the [Maven repository](https://mvnrepository.com) for your library and you'll see all the versions available.

The `<properties>` tag gives the version of Java we want to use to build.

The `<dependencyManagement>` tag allows us to use the Spring Framework BOM to help us get the correct versions of Spring dependencies that work together correctly.  This is the reason that the Spring `<dependency>` tags above do not include a version, but the Derby and JUnit ones do.  The BOM provides the correct version for us, but only for the Spring libraries.

The last section is for how to build.  This application uses a Spring build plugin to configure and build the application correctly for us.  We just include their plugin and just works.

## Application Class
If you go back to the Application class, you'll see that it has a main method inside of it. That makes this the code that the JVM uses to start running our application.  That's the key thing you need to know about this class.

There is not a lot of code here.  Again, Spring is doing a lot for us behind the scenes. The `@SpringBootApplication` is an annotation that hides a lot of framework code visually from us, but that code is wrapped around our Application class when it runs.  You'll see a lot of these annotations in Java. They will feel a bit like magic, and that's really fine. The idea is just another layer of code _abstraction_.  They are hiding details that we shouldn't have to care about because someone else has already tested it to ensure it works.

## Entity Classes
Let's look next at the Entity classes.  You'll find them in the entities package.  These should look familiar, as they are the classes that we defined before.  They contain our "model" or all the data properties we want to track. They are now updated with special annotations that are part of JPA or the Java Persistence API. These annotations help link Java classes to database tables.

- Game
- Reviewer
- Review
- Tag

If you look at each class, you'll notice that before the class declaration, there is an `@Entity` annotation.  This tells Spring and JPA that the class is part of the model and ties to a database.  You'll notice that there are also `@Id` annotations in each class.  For Game and Review, there is also an `@GeneratedValue` annotation that indicates we should _not_ set this key as the database will generate it for us.  In the Tag and Reviewer class however, we are using a unique business value as the key and we will set that value manually.

Where the database tables would join, there are annotations to express those relationships as well: `@OneToMany`, `@ManyToOne`, and `@ManyToMany`

## Repository Classes
The next set of files are for Spring Repositories, found in the repositories package. These are managers for the various entities or database tables.  These classes do not use annotations for "magic", they are interfaces that extend the Spring Framework CrudRepository interface. When we extend that interface, we specify the Entity type (class name) and the Id type in the < > much as we do when we want an ArrayList to hold values of a particular type.

So interfaces have no implementation right?  So how do these classes work if they are not classes at all?  This is more framework magic, but the gist of the idea is that Spring creates real classes from these interfaces at runtime. It's basically a Factory Pattern - which you can look up if you really want to know more than this. For right now though, its OK for this to be magic.  Most people never have to care.  Again that's the beauty of abstraction.  We drive the car even if we don't understand how the engine works.

## Configuration
The rest of our database magic happens in the config package.  The RepositoryConfiguration class uses a set of annotations to help Spring configure our Entities and Repositories correctly.  Notice that the `@EntityScan` annotation takes an argument for our entity package name.  Likewise the `@EnableJpaRepositories` annotation takes our repositories package name.

The other classes there will *listen* for our application to start, and will load some starting data into our database when that happens.  This will give us some data to look up without always needing to add it.  This application uses Derby, which is an in-memory database.  That means that when the application goes down, all the data that was there is lost.  (To avoid that you could write it to/from a file or something, but for learning, development and testing, this loss of data is generally fine.)

If you look at the GameDataLoader class.  First notice that is has an `@Component` annotation.  This annotation tells Spring that it needs this class to be part of the application.  This class implements the ApplicationListener interface, specifically listening for the ContextRefreshedEvent. When that event is triggered, the onApplicationEvent() method in this class will run.

We use that method to load data into our in-memory database.  To prevent errors from creating the same database entity more than once, we also mark this method with the `@Transactional` annotation.

## Services
The last set of classes are in the services package.  We will look at these more next week, but these will be our web interface to our data.  They will form a REST web service that will make JSON data available via HTTP.  This data could be used by a HTML/JavaScript front-end to display the data to our users.

You can get data back from these services currently only by knowing the key to the table.

- Game Search: localhost:8080/search/game?id=1
- Reviewer Search: localhost:8080/search/reviewer?username=TestUser1
- Review Search: localhost:8080/search/review?id=1

For Tags, you can get all of them:

- localhost:8080/search/tags


## Homework Assignment
Your homework is to create and update the DataLoader classes to create 3 new entities for each table.

- The GameDataLoader should create 3 different games.  
- The ReviewerDataLoader should create 3 different users.
- The ReviewDataLoader should create 3 different reviews.  These reviews should use create different games and reviewers than the classes above.

Note that if you want to have an entity shared by more than one entity you are building and saving, then it is important that you only create that object once.  The `TagRepository` has a handy method on it to look for a `Tag` and create it if it is not found.  You'll need to do something similar for the Reviewer if you want a single Reviewer to have more than one Review.  See the sample in the ReviewDataLoader.

Make sure to test that you can access your application via the localhost URLs and find the data you add.
